---
layout: post
title:  "ES proposal: Object.entries() and Object.values()"
description:  "ES2017 ecmascript 2017 proposal: Object.entries() and Object.values()"
date:   2016-12-19 05:12:21 +0200
categories: javascript
thumbnail: assets/klipse.png
guid: "A2A0EC34-D5D7-4934-98FC-6B857DA54C9F"
author: "@viebel"
minified_plugin: true
---

> This article is an interactive version of [this article by Dr. Axel Rauschmayer](http://www.2ality.com/2015/11/stage3-object-entries.html).

All the code snippets of this page are **live** and **interactive** powered by the [klipse plugin](https://github.com/viebel/klipse):

1. **Live**: The code is executed in your browser
2. **Interactive**: You can modify the code and it is evaluated as you type

The code is transpiled with [Babel Standalone](https://github.com/babel/babel-standalone).


The following ECMAScript proposal is at stage 4: “Object.values/Object.entries” by Jordan Harband. This blog post explains it.

## Object.entries() and Object.values()

# Object.entries()

This method has the following signature:

~~~haskell
Object.entries(value : any) : Array<[string,any]>
~~~

If a JavaScript data structure has keys and values then an entry is a key-value pair, encoded as a 2-element Array. `Object.entries(x)` coerces `x` to an `Object` and returns the entries of its enumerable own string-keyed properties, in an `Array`:

~~~es2017
 Object.entries({ one: 1, two: 2 })
~~~

Properties, whose keys are symbols, are ignored:

~~~es2017
Object.entries({ [Symbol()]: 123, foo: 'abc' });
~~~

Arrays are coerced into Objects:

~~~es2017
Object.entries(["a", "b"])
~~~

`Object.entries()` finally gives us a way to iterate over the properties of an object ([read here why objects aren’t iterable by default](http://exploringjs.com/es6/ch_iteration.html#sec_plain-objects-not-iterable)):

<pre><code class="language-es2017" data-async-code="true">
let obj = { one: 1, two: 2 };
for (let [k,v] of Object.entries(obj)) {
      console.log(k,  v);
}
</code></pre>

### Setting up Maps via Object.entries()

`Object.entries()` also lets you set up a `Map` ([read more about Map](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map)) via an object. This is more concise than using an Array of 2-element Arrays, but keys can only be strings.

~~~es2017
    let map = new Map(Object.entries({
        one: 1,
        two: 2,
    }));
    map
~~~

### FAQ: Object.entries()

1. **Why is the return value of `Object.entries()` an Array and not an iterator?**

> The relevant precedent in this case is `Object.keys()`, not, e.g., `Map.prototype.entries()`.

2. **Why does Object.entries() only return the enumerable own string-keyed properties?**

> Again, this is done to be consistent with `Object.keys()`. That method also ignores properties whose keys are symbols. Eventually, there may be a method `Reflect.ownEntries()` that returns all own properties.

# Object.values()

`Object.values()` has the following signature:

~~~haskell
Object.values(value : any) : Array<any>
~~~

It works much like `Object.entries()`, but, as its name suggests, it only returns the values of the own enumerable string-keyed properties:

~~~es2017
Object.values({ one: 1, two: 2 })
~~~


